screenshot/Readme.md, before:

## Server backend example 

This server backend is an example of how to achieve the only <b>one thing that the Firmware needs</b>:

A BMP image of 1 or 4 bits depth. Try first with 1 bit depth image and if for some reason does not work it can also receive a 4 bits BMP response.
We found out that for smaller displays our Firmware code to read 1 bit depth is working like expected, in that case, just return a 4-bit image. 

We used PHP as a server side language but it could be achieved with any language. The only thing that matters is that the response matches the expectations and the width/height size of your Eink display:

1. Response Content-Type:image/bmp
2. Image: Width / height in pixels should be equal to your display

## Library dependencies

To install the library dependencies we are using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org) just go in the command line to this directory and run:

    composer install

The index.php script generates a website screenshot of a given URL.
Make sure that the index.php Line:

    require './vendor/autoload.php';

Matches the **vendor** Folder location. 


## Expand it to match your Eink size

In the PHP we are receiving the **u** variable for the url that should be rendered and we added also a **eink** to represent the model:

    switch($eink_model) {
      case 'GxGDEW027C44':
       $displayWidth = 264;
       $displayHeight = 176;
       $zoomFactor = isset($_GET['z']) ? $_GET['z'] : '.6';
      break;
    }

This will return for a 2.7 " eink a 264x176 image. 
You can add your model to the case using this example and customize the width/height and zoom factor to get the desired output.
As default when no **eink** comes returns a 640*384 image. 
Feel free to expand this and your Eink display size. We prefer not to do it ourselves since we don't have all the models to test the output.

## Google calendar example

An example to render a dynamic google calendar is on the **g_calendar** directory along with instructions.

Commit message:

Corrections in screenshot tool documentation

screenshot/Readme.md, after:

## Server backend example 

This server backend is an example of how to achieve the only <b>one thing that the Firmware needs</b>:

A BMP image of 1 or 4 bits depth. Try first with 1 bit depth image and if for some reason does not work it can also receive a 4 bits BMP response.
We found out that for smaller displays our Firmware code to read 1 bit depth is not working like expected in small displays, in that case, just return a 4-bit image. 

We used PHP as a server side language but it could be achieved with any language. The only thing that matters is that the response matches the expectations and the width/height size of your Eink display:

1. Response Content-Type:image/bmp
2. Image: Width / height in pixels should be equal to your display

So it does not matter if you do this in ASP, Coldfusion, Perl or whatever language you choose. The Firmware does not care as long as you deliver the expected response with a bmp image.

## Library dependencies

To install the library dependencies we are using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org) just go in the command line to this directory and run:

    composer install

The index.php script generates a website screenshot of a given URL.
Make sure that the index.php Line:

    require './vendor/autoload.php';

Matches the **vendor** Folder location. 
Note that to simplify this examples, both the g_calendar and the screenshot tool are sharing the same vendor folders. Just split them if you need to have them separately. They do not need to work in the same server and they are conceived as small "microservices" that can run independently of each other.


## Expand it to match your Eink size

In the PHP we are receiving the **u** variable for the url that should be rendered and we added also a **eink** to represent the model:

    switch($eink_model) {
      case 'GxGDEW027C44':
       $displayWidth = 264;
       $displayHeight = 176;
       $zoomFactor = isset($_GET['z']) ? $_GET['z'] : '.6';
      break;
    }

This will return for a 2.7 " eink a 264x176 image if you pass the eink as a get parameter:

mywebsite.com/screenshot/index.php?u=https://www.google.com&eink=GxGDEW027C44

You can add your model to the case using this example and customize the width/height and zoom factor to get the desired output.
As default when no **eink** parameter comes returns a 640*384 image. 
Feel free to expand this and your Eink display size. We prefer not to do it ourselves since we don't have all the models to test the output.

## Google calendar example

An example to render a dynamic google calendar is on the **g_calendar** directory along with instructions.
